Integration: To establish a connection between two different applications.

Integration types:

1. Web services integration

A) SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) WS

i) Direct WS : Without validation if u want to trigger the transactions to third party application we will use direct web services.

Steps to follow to create the Direct WS:

1. SOAP message and choose the function based on the requirement (like insert, update, delete etc..)
2. Remove the function name in the body  of the XML
3. Create the varaible substutions
4. Create a Business rule and call the soap message and function in the BR
5. Pass the parameters (Field values)


ii) System WS : When we are receiving the data from the 3rd party application to servicenow we will use system web services.

Steps: 

1. Type system web services in the left navigation bar --> click on create new under inbound
2. Enter the label name (Staging table)
3. select the target table
4. uncheck the create transform map check box
5. create the transform map
6. do the field mappings 
7. Validations like keeping the coalsce or writing the script 
8. Provide the end point and authentication to the thrid party admins.


iii) Scripted WS



B) REST (Reprasentational State Transfer Protocol) WS


Differences between the REST and SOAP:

1. In Soap we can sent the response in the XML format only, but in Rest we will send the response in different formats like XML, JSON , CSV etc..
2. In Soap we have to give WSDL in the end point, but in Rest it is not required.
3. Data transformation is faster in Rest when compared to Soap.



REST message functions or methods:

1. POST : If we want to insert a new record in the 3rd party application we will use POST method
2. PUT : If we want to update a existing record in the 3rd party application we will PUT method
3. GET : If we want to get the data from the 3rd party application, we will use GET method
4. DELETE : If we want to delete the records from the 3rd party application, we will use delete method
5. PATCH: To write for any reccords in 3rd party application we will use PATCH method.



key: value

number: INC0010001

<number> INC0010001 </number>



2. Email integration (inbound email actions)
3. LDAP integration


COmponents required for integration:

1. End point(URL)
2. Authentication
3. Data to be sent


Outbound (Publisher) : Triggering the transaction from the servicenow to third party application we can call it as a outbound

Inbound (Consumer): Receiving the data from the third party application to ServiceNow

>> By default coalsce is not case sensitive, if we want to make it case sensitive we have to select the checkbox.

SOAP message functions:

1. getRecord
2. deleteRecord
3. update
4. deleteMultiple
5. getKeys
6. insert
7. get
